Click [Here](/index.md) to go to personal info.

## Project Idea

My project idea is a web based app that includes a recipe database/automatic meal planner/shopping list creator. It can also be made to be an application for mobile. The premise is users can sign up to gain access to the full database of recipes. They can also decide to enter their info such as height, weight, allergies etc and the system will automatically create a meal plan to suit the users needs. From this meal plan, it can very easily output a full shopping list, automating the task of figuring out what your weekly meals and what you need to get in your weekly shopping.

Currently as peoples lives become busier and busier, they have less and less time to spend on things such as planning out a full weeks worth of meals. Unfortunately, meal planning is a key part in proper budgeting and maintaining proper health. This app seeks to help with that by taking this task that many people would see as a chore and automating it so all that is needed is the user to go shopping and cook the meals.

The whole app includes several features including:
-	Recipe Database
-	Meal Planner
-	Shopping List Creator
The application can take a lot of information to help customise the meal plans to a specific person and/or their families situation. Data such as age, weight, height, gender, allergies, build, goal (i.e. lose weight, gain muscle etc..), ideal weight. Advanced data such as a persons weekly food budget can also be added to help make sure that a persons meal plan doesn’t include food outside the realm of what they can afford.
Another feature/alternate use of the app would be to keep a catalogue of all the food you have in your house. You could then have it show you recipes that you can make using what you have available. This feature would be helpful for people who may not have full control of what food they can access, and instead of having to repetitively cook the same thing, it would help show new recipes that you can make with the same or similar ingredients.
The simplest use of the app is to just look up recipes of specific things you would like to cook. The database would have many different filters to help users find the type of recipe they need. Recipes would categorised by what meal they are suitable for (I.e. breakfast, lunch, dinner, dessert, snacks etc…) and you could filter out recipes according to dietary requirements and allergies (e.g. filtering out recipes containing eggs, recipes containing gluten etc..) and you could also filter by dietary preferences (i.e. veganism, vegetarian, keto etc…). Some more possible filters would be filtering by the dishes main ingredient (Chocolate, chicken, tofu…), type of food (i.e. soup, casserole, pie etc…), how long the dish would take to prepare, rating, and whether it can be eaten hot or cold. All of this would mean that any recipes uploaded into the database would need to be very thoroughly tagged to be able for people to find what they need correctly.
Users would also be able to upload and share their own recipes. The biggest challenge with allowing this is having to screen to make sure that people aren’t uploading fake or prank recipes. A reporting and ranking system would be implemented so other users could report recipes they suspect are fake. Users could also rate the recipes they like the best so other people can tell what the most popular recipes are.
While entering their own recipes, users would use the pre ingredients already available on the system. This would mean the app would need to have a separate database of possible ingredients. But it would make uploading your own recipes would be much easier and help the system centralise its ability to create a shopping list so it doesn’t need to try and reconcile several different instances of the same ingredient, or people using different types of measurements (i.e. one recipe calling for 250g of an ingredient, while another recipes calling for half a pound). The entire point of the app is to automate as much of the process as possible to create an easy and smooth experience.

The main technologies needed for this project are database languages such as SQL, web development technologies (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP), and web hosting technologies. Whether it is a remotely hosted app (Hosted on a central server) or a peer to peer hosted app (Each time a user downloads or uses the app, it downloads a copy of everything from all other users. This technologies biggest advantage would mean there would be no need to constantly access the remote server which would be advantageous for people who may not have constant access to the internet. However, it would also mean the app takes up possibly significantly more room on whatever device it is being used on.

The creation of this app primarily requires various software development skills, (Front end and back end web development, database creation and maintenance). It would also require knowledge of hosting and server side operations, and how to handle constant user requests. If it was decided to go down the peer to peer route, a whole separate set of skills would be needed. The skills and hardware required would be quite easy to come across, the biggest hurdle being the fact that they would take quite a long amount of time to develop to the level needed.

Assuming all of this could be put together it would be a very useful tool to many different demographics such as helping people who may have never been taught how to put together a healthy meal plan be able to start eating better, or help people who have to live on a strict budget create a plan that can let them eat healthily while also staying within their budget.
